is a software developer, and I work as a co-contributor to the Open Science Saudi Arabia community.
So at Open Science Saudi Arabia, we basically work on open source projects aimed to improve
accessibility among other non-English speaking countries with key emphasis on big speaking
countries, most of which are sources can be attributed.
My wonderful team members, which are Patole, Lamees, and Gugnes, sadly.
So all my team members, some of them speak more than one language, which will be very
important key to note in the upcoming presentation.
So today I'll be speaking on the topic, Bridging JavaScript Documentation with Quarto's Power.
Now, have you ever encountered a scenario where you try to contribute to an open source
project and you find out that the documentation is way, way, way out of date compared to the
quite implemented features, or let's say another scenario where you're implementing a new feature
on a project and you are now tasked with the responsibility of updating the documentation.
And we find out that that same documentation is way, way out of date, and you have to spend
more time to bring it up to date before even documenting the signature.
Some of these are the issues we face while contributing to open source projects.
And this brings us to the need for very, very good documentation.
So some of the qualities of good documentation we can see, a good documentation has to be
very, very comprehensive, it has to be well-maintained, and this is very, very crucial to open source
projects because the study also shows that 93% of developers consider comprehensive documentation
as very, very, very crucial to open source projects.
While contributing to these open source projects, there might be some challenges and complications
that we might face, one of which is the inconsistency on how updated these documentations can be.
Like I explained earlier, these open source projects might be further enriching features
for the documentation, so we don't just test these features by coding how these features
can be used, how they can be contributed to, be adapted to other contributors.
Another issue we also face while contributing to open source projects is the difficulty
in localizing these documentations, which this has more to do with presenting this documentation
to a wider audience, to non-English-speaking contributors, because most of the documentation,
like we all know, is well-documented in English, but they don't really fail to account for
contributors from other parts of the world, which might not speak English as a native language.
Although, while considering these complications and shortcomings, there are existing tools
that help to mitigate these shortcomings, some of which are Sphinx.js, JPEG design notebooks,
and Piddle.
These tools, to some extent, help with these issues I will face while generating good documentation.
There's a little drawback with these tools, which is these tools fail to fully support
JavaScript.
These tools fail to fully support JavaScript.
So now this brings us to the question, how can we then streamline the process of generating
documentation for JavaScript projects?
Now, a good solution to this, a one-word solution to this, is JSQuartz.
So basically, JSQuartz is a tool that helps with generating documentation, streamlines
the process of directing documentation with just one click, and this tool works by implementing
different features common with existing tools and existing technologies, one of which is
JSDoc.
So with JSDoc, you have the ability to generate documentation from basically comments within
your JavaScript project.
So in this case, you don't have to break your flow, having to dedicate separate extra time
to code and dedicate extra time to document your code.
So why not just document your code while working with projects directly?
So basically, what JSDoc does, it extracts your code comments and builds on that code
comment on your documentation.
So you can see on the left, you can see the code comments that describes how the function
has been used, and these code comments are now extracted to form your code documentation.
So how JSQuartz implements these features for JSDoc is that with one line, you can...
Thank you.